website/docs/misc/examples.md, before:

---
title: I18n Examples
description: Examples of using Lingui for internationalization (i18n) in various frameworks and libraries
---

# Examples

To help you get started with Lingui, we've provided some example projects that demonstrate how Lingui can be integrated into various frameworks and libraries. These projects demonstrate Lingui's versatility and show you how to use it in real-world scenarios.

Check out the example projects below:

- [Create React App](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/create-react-app)
- [Vanilla JS](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/js)
- [Next.js with Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-babel)
- [Next.js with SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-swc)
- [React Native](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/react-native)
- [React with Vite and Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/vite-project-react-babel)
- [React with Vite and SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/vite-project-react-swc)
- [Rspack with Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/rspack)

Commit message:

Rename nextjs examples to app, pages, pages-babel

website/docs/misc/examples.md, after:

---
title: I18n Examples
description: Examples of using Lingui for internationalization (i18n) in various frameworks and libraries
---

# Examples

To help you get started with Lingui, we've provided some example projects that demonstrate how Lingui can be integrated into various frameworks and libraries. These projects demonstrate Lingui's versatility and show you how to use it in real-world scenarios.

Check out the example projects below:

- [Create React App](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/create-react-app)
- [Vanilla JS](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/js)
- [Next.js with app router & SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-app)
- [Next.js with pages router & SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-pages)
- [Next.js with pages router & Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-pages-babel)
- [React Native](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/react-native)
- [React with Vite and Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/vite-project-react-babel)
- [React with Vite and SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/vite-project-react-swc)
- [Rspack with Babel](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/rspack)
