website/docs/misc/tooling.md, before:

---
title: Third-Party Modules
---

# Third-Party Modules

| Tool                                                                                                              | Type    | Description                                                                                  |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`svelte-i18n-lingui`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte-i18n-lingui)                                          | addon   | Add i18n to Svelte/Sveltekit projects using Lingui, with gettext-style message as catalog id |
| [`@graphcommerce/lingui-next`](https://github.com/graphcommerce-org/graphcommerce/tree/main/packages/lingui-next) | addon   | This package adds Lingui to GraphCommerce                                                    |
| [Lingui String Exporter](https://store.crowdin.com/lingui-string-exporter)                                        | tool    | Deliver new translations to your Lingui application over-the-air                             |
| [lingui-action](https://github.com/trisbee/lingui-action)                                                         | tool    | Run Lingui CLI in GitHub Actions workflow                                                    |
| [Auto Translation Tool](https://auto-translation.now.sh/)                                                         | service | Tool for translating JSON files for LinguiJS                                                 |
| [simpleen.io](https://simpleen.io/)                                                                               | service | Online and CLI Tool to machine translate LinguiJS JSON files                                 |

Commit message:

docs: add linguito tool to the Third-Party Modules page

website/docs/misc/tooling.md, after:

---
title: Third-Party Modules
---

# Third-Party Modules

| Name                                                                                                              | Type    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [`svelte-i18n-lingui`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte-i18n-lingui)                                          | addon   | Add i18n to Svelte/Sveltekit projects using Lingui, with gettext-style message as catalog id                                                                                                                                        |
| [`@graphcommerce/lingui-next`](https://github.com/graphcommerce-org/graphcommerce/tree/main/packages/lingui-next) | addon   | This package adds Lingui to GraphCommerce                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [Lingui String Exporter](https://store.crowdin.com/lingui-string-exporter)                                        | tool    | Deliver new translations to your Lingui application over-the-air                                                                                                                                                                    |
| [linguito](https://github.com/Serchinastico/linguito)                                                             | tool    | Linguito is a CLI tool designed to enhance the capabilities of Lingui. It provides advanced utilities to ensure smooth internationalization (i18n) workflows, making it a great companion for managing translations in your project |
| [lingui-action](https://github.com/trisbee/lingui-action)                                                         | tool    | Run Lingui CLI in GitHub Actions workflow                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [Auto Translation Tool](https://auto-translation.now.sh/)                                                         | service | Tool for translating JSON files for LinguiJS                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| [simpleen.io](https://simpleen.io/)                                                                               | service | Online and CLI Tool to machine translate LinguiJS JSON files                                                                                                                                                                        |
