.. _js-tutorial-label:

**************************************************
Tutorial - Internationalization of JavaScript apps
**************************************************

.. warning:: This is a draft of tutorial. Feel free to send a PR if you want to contribute.

In this tutorial, we'll learn how to use LinguiJS's internationalization features that
do not depend on React. We'll take a minimalist approach and cover the main functions
from the ``@lingui/core`` package.

Installing LinguiJS
========================

LinguiJS_ isn't just a package. It's a set of tools which helps you to
internationalize. You can pick whichever tool you want to use in your project.
We're trying to use most of them to show the full power of LinguiJS.

Let's start with the three major packages:

``@lingui/cli``
   CLI for i18n management and working with message catalogs

``@lingui/core``
   The core library responsible for translation and handling of message catalogs

``@lingui/macro``
   Transforms messages wrapped in tagged template literals to ICU
   MessageFormat and validates them.

1. ``@lingui/cli`` comes with handy :cli:`init` command, which detects the
   project type and install all required packages automatically. Feel free to run
   it with ``lingui init --dry-run`` option to inspect what commands will be run:

   .. code-block:: shell

      npm install -g @lingui/cli
      lingui init

   Yarn is supported as well:

   .. code-block:: shell

      yarn global add @lingui/cli
      lingui init

   .. note::

      Under the hood it installs ``babel-plugin-macros`` and ``@lingui/macro`` as
      a development dependency and ``@lingui/core`` as a runtime dependency:

      .. code-block:: shell

         npm install --save @lingui/core
         npm install --save-dev babel-plugin-macros @lingui/macro

2. Add ``macro`` plugin to Babel config (e.g: ``.babelrc``):

   .. code-block:: json

      {
        "presets": [
          "env",
          "react",
        ],
        "plugins": [
          "macro"
        ]
      }

3. If you receive a warning about missing peer dependency ``babel-core``, you need
to install it manually. Target version depends on whether you're using babel 6 or 7:

   .. code-block:: shell

      # Babel 6.x
      npm install --save-dev babel-core@6

      # Babel 7.x
      npm install --save-dev babel-core@^7.0.0-bridge.0 @babel/core

Now we have the environment up and running and we can start internationalizing our app!

Setting up i18n
===============

First we need to setup the i18n object, which is pretty simple:

.. code-block:: js

  import { setupI18n } from '@lingui/core'

  // messages.js is generated by the cli
  import englishMessages from 'path-to-locale/en/messages.js';


  // setup the i18n object with active language and catalogs
  let i18n = setupI18n({
    language: 'en',
    catalogs: {
      en: englishMessages,
    },
  });


Localizing your app
===================

Once that is done, we can go ahead and use it! Wrap you text in :jsmacro:`t` macro
and pass it to :js:meth:`i18n._` method:

.. code-block:: js

   import { t } from "@lingui/macro"

   i18n._(t`Hello World!`)
   // becomes "Salut le monde!"

   const name = "Fred"
   i18n._(t`My name is ${ name }`)
   // becomes "Je m'appelle Fred"

Plurals and selections are possible using plural and select methods:

.. code-block:: js

   import { plural } from "@lingui/macro"

   const count = 42

   i18n._(plural({
     value: count,
     one: "# book",
     other: "# books"
   }))
   // becomes "42 livres"

It's also possible to nest message formats. Each message format method in i18n has a standalone companion, which only returns message without performing the translation:

.. code-block:: js

   import { t, select, plural } from "@lingui/macro"

   i18n._(select({
     value: gender,
     offset: 1,
     female: plural({
       value: numOfGuests,
       offset: 1,
       0: t`${host} does not give a party.`,
       1: t`${host} invites ${guest} to her party.`,
       2: t`${host} invites ${guest} and one other person to her party.`,
       other: t`${host} invites ${guest} and # other people to her party.`
     }),
     male: plural({...}),
     other: plural({...}),
   }))


Further reading
===============

- `@lingui/cli reference documentation <../ref/cli.html>`_
- `Pluralization Guide <../guides/plurals.html>`_
