packages/extractor-vue/README.md, before:

# Vue extractor

This package contains a set of custom extractors that handles Vue files. It supports extracting messages from script and setup scripts as well as limited support for extracting messages from templates.

## Installation

```sh
npm install @lingui/extractor-vue
```

## Usage

This custom extractor requires that you use typescript for your lingui configuration.

```ts
import { vueExtractor } from "@lingui/extractor-vue"
import babel from "@lingui/cli/api/extractors/babel"

const linguiConfig = {
  locales: ["en", "nb"],
  sourceLocale: "en",
  catalogs: [
    {
      path: "<rootDir>/src/{locale}",
      include: ["<rootDir>/src"],
    },
  ],
  extractors: [babel, vueExtractor],
}
export default linguiConfig
```

## Vue template limitations

This extractor assumes annotated `i18n` calls in Vue templates.

The following examples will be extracted:

- `i18n._(/*i18n*/ "Message")`
- `i18n.t(/*i18n*/ { id: "Message" })`
- `i18n.t(/*i18n*/ { message: "Message", id: "my.message", comment: "Comment" })`

While the following examples wont:

- `i18n._("Message")`
- `i18n.t({ id: "Message" })`
- `i18n.t({ message: "Message", id: "my.message", comment: "Comment" })`

Commit message:

fix: update readme after extractor changes that removes limitations

packages/extractor-vue/README.md, after:

[![License][badge-license]][license]
[![Version][badge-version]][package]
[![Downloads][badge-downloads]][package]

# @lingui/vue-extractor

This package contains a custom extractor that handles Vue.js files. It supports extracting messages from script and setup scripts as well as Vue templates.

`@lingui/vue-extractor` is part of [LinguiJS][linguijs]. See the [documentation][documentation] for all information, tutorials and examples.

## Installation

```sh
npm install --save-dev @lingui/extractor-vue
```

## Usage

This custom extractor requires that you use JavaScript for your Lingui configuration.

```js
import { vueExtractor } from "@lingui/extractor-vue"
import babel from "@lingui/cli/api/extractors/babel"

const linguiConfig = {
  locales: ["en", "nb"],
  sourceLocale: "en",
  catalogs: [
    {
      path: "<rootDir>/src/{locale}",
      include: ["<rootDir>/src"],
    },
  ],
  extractors: [babel, vueExtractor],
}

export default linguiConfig
```

## License

This package is licensed under [MIT][license] license.

[license]: https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/blob/main/LICENSE
[linguijs]: https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui
[documentation]: https://lingui.dev/tutorials/extractor-vue
