docs/ref/lingui-cli.rst, before:

*********************************
API Reference - CLI (@lingui/cli)
*********************************

``@lingui/cli`` manages locales, extracts messages from source files into
message catalogs and compiles message catalogs for production use.


Install
=======

``@lingui/cli`` can be installed both globally:

.. code-block:: shell

   yarn global add @lingui/cli
   # npm install --global @lingui/cli

or locally:

.. code-block:: shell

   yarn add --dev @lingui/cli
   # npm install --save-dev @lingui/cli

.. note::

   When installed locally, you need to either run it from
   ``node_modules/.bin/lingui`` or add it to your ``package.json``:

   .. code-block:: json

      {
        "scripts": {
          "add-locale": "lingui add-locale",
          "extract": "lingui extract",
          "compile": "lingui compile"
        }
      }

   Then you can use:

   .. code-block:: shell

      npm run add-locale -- en cs
      npm run extract
      npm run compile

Commands
========

``add-locale``
--------------

.. lingui-cli:: add-locale [locales...] [--format <format>]

This command creates a new directory for each locale in :conf:`localeDir`.

.. code-block:: shell

   # Add English, French and Spanish locales
   lingui add-locale en fr es

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalog (see :conf:`format` option).

``extract``
-----------

.. lingui-cli:: extract [--clean] [--format <format>] [--convert-from <format>] [--verbose]

This command extracts messages from source files and creates a message catalog for
each language using the following steps:

1. Extract messages from all ``*.jsx?`` files inside :conf:`srcPathDirs`
2. Merge them with existing catalogs in :conf:`localeDir` (if any)
3. Write updated message catalogs to :conf:`localeDir`

.. lingui-cli-option:: --clean

Remove obsolete messages from catalogs. Message becomes obsolete
when it's missing in the source code.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalogs (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --convert-from <format>

Convert message catalogs from previous format (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --verbose

Prints additional information.

``compile``
-----------

.. lingui-cli:: compile [--strict] [--format <format>] [--verbose]

This command compiles message catalogs in :conf:`localeDir` and outputs
minified Javascript files. Each message is replaced with a function
that returns the translated message when called.

Also, language data (pluralizations) are written to the message catalog as well.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --strict

Fail if a catalog has missing translations.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalogs (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --verbose

Prints additional information.

Commit message:

feat: Set correct defaults in new and merged catalogs (#233)
* refactor: remove side-effects from merge method

* fix: set correct defaults in new and merged catalogs

* fix: set translation to default only in minimal format

* fix: allow including localeRe inside patterns

* refactor: replace map . keys with mapObjIndexed

* chore: Transform modules by default

This change makes it easier to run scripts locally using babel-node.
In Rollup and Babel build are module transformers disabled explicitely.

* feat: allow overwrite translation for sourceLocale

docs/ref/lingui-cli.rst, after:

*********************************
API Reference - CLI (@lingui/cli)
*********************************

``@lingui/cli`` manages locales, extracts messages from source files into
message catalogs and compiles message catalogs for production use.


Install
=======

``@lingui/cli`` can be installed both globally:

.. code-block:: shell

   yarn global add @lingui/cli
   # npm install --global @lingui/cli

or locally:

.. code-block:: shell

   yarn add --dev @lingui/cli
   # npm install --save-dev @lingui/cli

.. note::

   When installed locally, you need to either run it from
   ``node_modules/.bin/lingui`` or using npx_ (``npx lingui``) add it to your
   ``package.json``:

   .. code-block:: json

      {
        "scripts": {
          "add-locale": "lingui add-locale",
          "extract": "lingui extract",
          "compile": "lingui compile"
        }
      }

   Then you can use:

   .. code-block:: shell

      npm run add-locale -- en cs
      npm run extract
      npm run compile

Commands
========

``add-locale``
--------------

.. lingui-cli:: add-locale [locales...] [--format <format>]

This command creates a new directory for each locale in :conf:`localeDir`.

.. code-block:: shell

   # Add English, French and Spanish locales
   lingui add-locale en fr es

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalog (see :conf:`format` option).

``extract``
-----------

.. lingui-cli:: extract [--clean] [--overwrite] [--format <format>] [--convert-from <format>] [--verbose]

This command extracts messages from source files and creates a message catalog for
each language using the following steps:

1. Extract messages from all ``*.jsx?`` files inside :conf:`srcPathDirs`
2. Merge them with existing catalogs in :conf:`localeDir` (if any)
3. Write updated message catalogs to :conf:`localeDir`

.. lingui-cli-option:: --clean

Remove obsolete messages from catalogs. Message becomes obsolete
when it's missing in the source code.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --overwrite

Update translations for :conf:`sourceLocale` from source.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalogs (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --convert-from <format>

Convert message catalogs from previous format (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --verbose

Prints additional information.

``compile``
-----------

.. lingui-cli:: compile [--strict] [--format <format>] [--verbose]

This command compiles message catalogs in :conf:`localeDir` and outputs
minified Javascript files. Each message is replaced with a function
that returns the translated message when called.

Also, language data (pluralizations) are written to the message catalog as well.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --strict

Fail if a catalog has missing translations.

.. lingui-cli-option:: --format <format>

Format of message catalogs (see :conf:`format` option).

.. lingui-cli-option:: --verbose

Prints additional information.


.. _npx: https://github.com/zkat/npx
