website/docs/tools/crowdin.md, before:

# Crowdin

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://support.crowdin.com/assets/logos/crowdin-dark-symbol.png#gh-light-mode-only" alt="Crowdin agile localization for developers" width="150"/>
  <img src="https://support.crowdin.com/assets/logos/symbol/png/crowdin-symbol-cWhite.png#gh-dark-mode-only" alt="Crowdin agile localization for developers" width="150"/>
</p>

Crowdin is a localization management platform that helps translate your LinguiJS-based product. Automate localization, release several multilingual versions of your app simultaneously, and provide an enhanced experience for your global customers.

[Website](https://crowdin.com/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) \| [GitHub](https://github.com/crowdin) \| [Support](https://crowdin.com/contacts?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev)

## Features

### Keep all translations in one place while connecting your teams via Crowdin

Connect with your content, marketing, and translation teams in one collaborative space:

- Screenshots for additional context.
- Highlight HTML, placeholders, plurals, and more.
- Describe the context and set character limits to ensure the translation fits the UI.
- All translations are done online or can be uploaded to the platform.
- Jira integration to notify you about source string issues.
- Tips for translators to ensure there is no extra space or broken code.

### Ship faster with localization running in parallel

Keep developing new features and improvements while translators receive new texts in real-time. Release multilingual versions for customers around the globe simultaneously.

### Release your product in several languages at once

Help users from different regions use the latest version of your product in their language:

- Get feature branches translated independently from the master branch.
- Translators work together in one place to boost productivity.
- Never deal with translations in spreadsheets or email attachments.
- Source texts are updated for translators automatically and in real-time.
- Automatically pull completed translations that are ready to be merged.

### Seamlessly integrate localization during any phase of your development cycle

Automate the integration of source texts and translations between Crowdin and your source code with one-click integration or customizable solutions.

### Define your translation strategy

Decide who will translate your content:

- Invite your team of translators (in-house translators, freelancers, or translation agencies you already work with).
- Order professional translations from a vendor (translation agency) from Crowdin Vendors Marketplace.
- Configure machine translation engines.
- Engage your community.

### VCS: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket

Source strings are pulled automatically and are always up to date for your translators. Translated content is automatically pushed to your repository as a request.

![Automatically pull source strings to Crowdin and push translated content to your repository](/img/docs/Crowdin__js-lingui-vcs.png)

### CLI

Easily integrate Crowdin with your CI server, GIT, SVN, Mercurial, etc. Connect cross-platform [Crowdin CLI](https://developer.crowdin.com/cli-tool/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) directly to your code repository and never deal with localization files manually again.

![Manage and synchronize your localization resources with Crowdin CLI](/img/docs/Crowdin__js-lingui-cli.png)

### 1. Create the `crowdin.yml` configuration file

```yaml title="crowdin.yml"
project_id: "123456" # Your Crowdin project ID
api_token_env: CROWDIN_PERSONAL_TOKEN

preserve_hierarchy: true

files: # Paths to the source and translation files
  - source: /**/locales/en/*
    translation: /**/locales/%two_letters_code%/%original_file_name%
```

### 2. Install the Crowdin CLI as an npm package

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @crowdin/cli@3
```

### 3. Add the following scripts

Add these lines to your `package.json` to make your life easier.

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "crowdin": "crowdin",
    "sync": "crowdin push && crowdin pull",
    "sync:sources": "crowdin push",
    "sync:translations": "crowdin pull"
  }
}
```

### 4. Configuration

Set the `CROWDIN_PERSONAL_TOKEN` env variable on your computer, to allow the CLI to authenticate with the Crowdin API.

### 5. Usage

Test that you can run the Crowdin CLI:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin --version
```

Upload all the source files to Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync:sources
```

Download translation files from Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync:translations
```

Upload sources to Crowdin and download translations from Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync
```

To run other Crowdin CLI commands you can use the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin <command> <options>
```

To see the full list of possible commands and options:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin -h
```

### [API](https://support.crowdin.com/api/v2/) and webhooks

Customize your experience. Automate and scale your localization workflow. Seamlessly add new content for translation to your Crowdin project, check translation status, merge new content, etc.

### To get started, register a [Crowdin.com](https://accounts.crowdin.com/register?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) or [Crowdin Enterprise](https://accounts.crowdin.com/workspace/create?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) account

Once you have signed up, we recommend [creating your localization project](https://support.crowdin.com/creating-project/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).

Depending on the ways you would like to work with Crowdin, we offer such options:

1.  [Integrate Crowdin with GitHub](https://support.crowdin.com/github-integration/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).
2.  Manage and synchronize your localization resources with [Crowdin CLI](https://developer.crowdin.com/cli-tool/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).
3.  [Upload files for the test via UI](https://support.crowdin.com/uploading-files/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).

Commit message:

docs: add info about Crowdin OTA

website/docs/tools/crowdin.md, after:

# Crowdin

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://support.crowdin.com/assets/logos/crowdin-dark-symbol.png#gh-light-mode-only" alt="Crowdin agile localization for developers" width="150"/>
  <img src="https://support.crowdin.com/assets/logos/symbol/png/crowdin-symbol-cWhite.png#gh-dark-mode-only" alt="Crowdin agile localization for developers" width="150"/>
</p>

Crowdin is a localization management platform that helps translate your LinguiJS-based product. Automate localization, release several multilingual versions of your app simultaneously, and provide an enhanced experience for your global customers.

[Website](https://crowdin.com/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) \| [GitHub](https://github.com/crowdin) \| [Support](https://crowdin.com/contacts?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev)

## Features

### Keep all translations in one place while connecting your teams via Crowdin

Connect with your content, marketing, and translation teams in one collaborative space:

- Screenshots for additional context.
- Highlight HTML, placeholders, plurals, and more.
- Describe the context and set character limits to ensure the translation fits the UI.
- All translations are done online or can be uploaded to the platform.
- Jira integration to notify you about source string issues.
- Tips for translators to ensure there is no extra space or broken code.

### Ship faster with localization running in parallel

Keep developing new features and improvements while translators receive new texts in real-time. Release multilingual versions for customers around the globe simultaneously.

### Release your product in several languages at once

Help users from different regions use the latest version of your product in their language:

- Get feature branches translated independently from the master branch.
- Translators work together in one place to boost productivity.
- Never deal with translations in spreadsheets or email attachments.
- Source texts are updated for translators automatically and in real-time.
- Automatically pull completed translations that are ready to be merged.

### Seamlessly integrate localization during any phase of your development cycle

Automate the integration of source texts and translations between Crowdin and your source code with one-click integration or customizable solutions.

### Define your translation strategy

Decide who will translate your content:

- Invite your team of translators (in-house translators, freelancers, or translation agencies you already work with).
- Order professional translations from a vendor (translation agency) from Crowdin Vendors Marketplace.
- Configure machine translation engines.
- Engage your community.

### VCS: GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket

Source strings are pulled automatically and are always up to date for your translators. Translated content is automatically pushed to your repository as a request.

![Automatically pull source strings to Crowdin and push translated content to your repository](/img/docs/Crowdin__js-lingui-vcs.png)

### CLI

Easily integrate Crowdin with your CI server, GIT, SVN, Mercurial, etc. Connect cross-platform [Crowdin CLI](https://developer.crowdin.com/cli-tool/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) directly to your code repository and never deal with localization files manually again.

![Manage and synchronize your localization resources with Crowdin CLI](/img/docs/Crowdin__js-lingui-cli.png)

### 1. Create the `crowdin.yml` configuration file

```yaml title="crowdin.yml"
project_id: "123456" # Your Crowdin project ID
api_token_env: CROWDIN_PERSONAL_TOKEN

preserve_hierarchy: true

files: # Paths to the source and translation files
  - source: /**/locales/en/*
    translation: /**/locales/%two_letters_code%/%original_file_name%
```

### 2. Install the Crowdin CLI as an npm package

```bash npm2yarn
npm install @crowdin/cli@3
```

### 3. Add the following scripts

Add these lines to your `package.json` to make your life easier.

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "crowdin": "crowdin",
    "sync": "crowdin push && crowdin pull",
    "sync:sources": "crowdin push",
    "sync:translations": "crowdin pull"
  }
}
```

### 4. Configuration

Set the `CROWDIN_PERSONAL_TOKEN` env variable on your computer, to allow the CLI to authenticate with the Crowdin API.

### 5. Usage

Test that you can run the Crowdin CLI:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin --version
```

Upload all the source files to Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync:sources
```

Download translation files from Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync:translations
```

Upload sources to Crowdin and download translations from Crowdin:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run sync
```

To run other Crowdin CLI commands you can use the following command:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin <command> <options>
```

To see the full list of possible commands and options:

```bash npm2yarn
npm run crowdin -h
```

### Over-The-Air Content Delivery

Over-the-Air Content Delivery is a feature that allows you to instantly update sources and translations in your mobile, server, desktop, or web apps with a single click without preparing a new release.

Visit the following pages to learn more about how to integrate Over-The-Air Content Delivery into your Lingui project:

- [Lingui tutorial - Crowdin OTA JS Client](https://crowdin.github.io/ota-client-js/tutorials/lingui/)
- [Lingui String Exporter - Crowdin Marketplace](https://store.crowdin.com/lingui-string-exporter)

### [API](https://support.crowdin.com/api/v2/) and webhooks

Customize your experience. Automate and scale your localization workflow. Seamlessly add new content for translation to your Crowdin project, check translation status, merge new content, etc.

### To get started, register a [Crowdin.com](https://accounts.crowdin.com/register?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) or [Crowdin Enterprise](https://accounts.crowdin.com/workspace/create?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev) account

Once you have signed up, we recommend [creating your localization project](https://support.crowdin.com/creating-project/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).

Depending on the ways you would like to work with Crowdin, we offer such options:

1.  [Integrate Crowdin with GitHub](https://support.crowdin.com/github-integration/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).
2.  Manage and synchronize your localization resources with [Crowdin CLI](https://developer.crowdin.com/cli-tool/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).
3.  [Upload files for the test via UI](https://support.crowdin.com/uploading-files/?utm_source=lingui.dev&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=lingui.dev).
