website/docs/ref/conf.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: Learn how to configure Lingui for your project
---

# Configuration

The following reference covers all supported configuration options in Lingui. To learn more about configuring Lingui, read the [Installation and Setup](/installation) guide.

By default, Lingui looks for the configuration in the following locations:

- `lingui.config.js` or `lingui.config.ts` file exporting a configuration object (recommended).
- `.linguirc` file in JSON format.
- `lingui` section in `package.json`.

You can also define the environment variable `LINGUI_CONFIG` with the path to your config file.

In the case of TypeScript-based config you can use ESM format and _export default_.

## catalogs

Default value:

```js
[
  {
    path: "<rootDir>/locale/{locale}/messages",
    include: ["<rootDir>"],
    exclude: ["**/node_modules/**"],
  },
];
```

The `catalogs` configuration defines the location of message catalogs and specifies which files are included when the [`extract`](/ref/cli#extract) command scans for messages.

- `path`: the directory where the message catalogs are located. It should not end with a slash and must not include a file extension, which depends on the [`format`](#format) configuration. The `{locale}` token will be replaced by the catalog's locale.
- `include` and `exclude`: these patterns specify which files to include or exclude during the extraction process. They are passed to [minimatch](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch) for pattern matching.
- [`<rootDir>`](#rootdir): represents the root directory of the project. It is replaced with the actual root directory when the configuration is loaded. By default, [`<rootDir>`](#rootdir) represents the configuration file's location.

The `path`, `include`, and `exclude` patterns are interpreted relative to the current process CWD (current working directory).

The `{name}` token in the `path` will be replaced with the catalog name. Be sure to include the `{name}` pattern in the source path as well, as it acts like a `*` glob pattern:

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "<rootDir>/components/{name}/locale/{locale}",
      "include": ["<rootDir>/components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Examples

Let's assume we use `locales: ["en", "cs"]` and `format: "po"` in all examples.

#### All catalogs in one directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "locales/{locale}"
    }
  ]
}
```

```bash
locales/
├── en.po
└── cs.po
```

#### Catalogs in separate directories

```js
{
  catalogs: [
    {
      path: "locales/{locale}/messages",
    },
  ];
}
```

```bash {3,5}
locales
├── en/
│   └── messages.po
└── cs/
    └── messages.po
```

#### Separate catalogs per component, placed inside component directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "components/{name}/locale/{locale}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

```shell {4,5,10,11}
components/
├── RegistrationForm/
│   ├── locale/
│   │  ├── en.po
│   │  └── cs.po
│   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
│   └── RegistrationForm.js
└── LoginForm/
    ├── locale/
    │  ├── en.po
    │  └── cs.po
    ├── LoginForm.test.js
    └── LoginForm.js
```

#### Separate catalogs per component, placed inside shared directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "locale/{locale}/{name}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

```shell {4,5,7,8}
.
├── locale/
│   ├── en/
│   │   ├── RegistrationForm.po
│   │   └── LoginForm.po
│   └── cs/
│       ├── RegistrationForm.po
│       └── LoginForm.po
└── components/
    ├── RegistrationForm/
    │   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
    │   └── RegistrationForm.js
    └── LoginForm/
        ├── LoginForm.test.js
        └── LoginForm.js
```

## locales

Default value: `[]`

The locale tags used in the project. The [`extract`](/ref/cli#extract) and [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) commands write a catalog for each locale specified. Each locale should be a valid [BCP-47 code](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html):

```json
{
  "locales": ["en", "cs"]
}
```

## fallbackLocales

Default value: `{}`

Translations from `fallbackLocales` are used if the translation for the given locale is missing. It uses [CLDR Parent Locales](https://github.com/unicode-cldr/cldr-core/blob/master/supplemental/parentLocales.json) by default, unless you override it with a `false` to use the default message or message ID instead:

```json
{
  "fallbackLocales": false
}
```

The `fallbackLocales` object allows to configure fallback locales for each locale instance:

```json
{
  "fallbackLocales": {
    "en-US": ["en-GB", "en"],
    "es-MX": "es"
  }
}
```

In this example, if any translation isn't found on `en-US`, then it will search on `en-GB`, after that if not found we'll search in `en`.

it's also possible to configure a `default` fallback locale for all locales:

```json {5}
{
  "fallbackLocales": {
    "en-US": ["en-GB", "en"],
    "es-MX": "es",
    "default": "en"
  }
}
```

## sourceLocale

Default value: `""`

`sourceLocale` specifies the default language of message IDs in your source files. The catalog for `sourceLocale` doesn't need actual translations since message IDs are used as-is by default. However, you can still override any message ID by providing a custom translation.

The main difference between `sourceLocale` and [`fallbackLocales`](#fallbacklocales) is their purpose: `sourceLocale` defines the language used for message IDs, while `fallbackLocales` provides alternative translations when specific messages are missing for a particular locale.

## pseudoLocale

Default value: `""`

Locale used for pseudolocalization. For example, when you set `pseudoLocale: "en"`, all messages in the `en` catalog will be pseudo-localized. The locale must be included in the `locales` config.

Read more about [Pseudolocalization](/guides/pseudolocalization).

## catalogsMergePath

Default value: `""`

Define the path where translated catalogs are merged into a single file per locale during the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) process.

#### Example

Let's assume we have [separate catalogs per component, placed inside shared directory](#separate-catalogs-per-component-placed-inside-shared-directory).

Using the `catalogsMergePath`, separate catalogs can be merged into a single file:

```diff
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "/locale/{locale}/{name}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ],
+ "catalogsMergePath": "locales/{locale}"
}
```

```diff
.
  ├── locale/
  │   ├── en/
  │   │   ├── RegistrationForm.po
- │   │   ├── RegistrationForm.js
  │   │   ├── LoginForm.po
- │   │   └── LoginForm.js
  │   └── cs/
  │       ├── RegistrationForm.po
- │       ├── RegistrationForm.js
  │       ├── LoginForm.po
- │       └── LoginForm.js
+ ├── locales/
+ │   ├── en.js
+ │   └── cs.js
  └── components/
      ├── RegistrationForm/
      │   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
      │   └── RegistrationForm.js
      └── LoginForm/
          ├── LoginForm.test.js
          └── LoginForm.js
```

## compileNamespace

Default value: `cjs`

Specify namespace for exporting compiled messages. See [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command.

#### cjs

Use CommonJS exports:

```js
/* eslint-disable */module.exports={messages: {"..."}}
```

#### es

Use ES6 named export:

```js
/* eslint-disable */export const messages = {"..."}
```

#### ts

Use ES6 named export + `.ts` file with an additional `{compiledFile}.d.ts` file:

```js
/* eslint-disable */export const messages = {"..."}
```

```js
import { Messages } from '@lingui/core';
declare const messages: Messages;
export { messages };
```

#### json

```json
{"messages": {"..."}}
```

#### (window\|global).(.\*)

Assign compiled messages to `window` or `global` object. Specify an identifier after `window` or `global` to which the catalog is assigned, e.g. `window.i18n`.

For example, setting [`compileNamespace`](#compilenamespace) to `window.i18n` creates file similar to this:

```js
/* eslint-disable */window.i18n={messages: {"..."}}
```

## extractorParserOptions

Default value: `{}`

Specify additional options used to parse source files when extracting messages.

```json
{
  "extractorParserOptions": {
    "tsExperimentalDecorators": false,
    "flow": false
  }
}
```

#### tsExperimentalDecorators

Default value: `false`

By default, standard decorators (Stage3) are applied to TS files. Enable this if you want to use TypeScript's experimental decorators.

#### flow

Default value: `false`

Lingui does not ship with [Flow](https://flow.org/) typing. However, you can use Lingui in projects written in Flow. Enable this option to tell the extractor that your sources use Flow syntax.

## compilerBabelOptions

Default value:

```json
{
  "minified": true,
  "jsescOption": {
    "minimal": true
  }
}
```

Specify extra babel options used to generate files when messages are being compiled. We use internally `@babel/generator` that accepts some configuration for generating code with/out ASCII characters. These are all the options available: [jsesc](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/jsesc).

```json
{
  "compilerBabelOptions": {
    "jsescOption": {
      "minimal": false
    }
  }
}
```

This example configuration will compile with escaped ASCII characters ([jsesc#minimal](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/jsesc#minimal)).

## format

Default value: `po`

Message catalog format. The `po` formatter is used by default. Other formatters are available as separate packages.

```js title="lingui.config.{js,ts}"
import { defineConfig } from "@lingui/cli";
import { formatter } from "@lingui/format-po";

export default defineConfig({
  // [...]
  format: formatter({ lineNumbers: false }),
});
```

Read more about available formatters in [Catalog Formats](/ref/catalog-formats) or create your own [Custom Formatter](/guides/custom-formatter).

## orderBy

Default value: `message`

Order of messages in catalog:

#### message

Sort by source message.

#### messageId

Sort by the message ID, `js-lingui-id` will be used if no custom id provided.

#### origin

Sort by message origin (e.g. `App.js:3`)

## rootDir

Default: The root of the directory containing your Lingui configuration file or the `package.json`.

This is the directory where the Lingui CLI scans for messages in your source files during the extraction process.

Note that using `<rootDir>` as a string token in any other path-based config settings will refer back to this value.

## runtimeConfigModule

Default value: `["@lingui/core", "i18n"]`

This setting specifies the module path for the exported `i18n` object. The first value in the array is the module path, and the second is the name of the import. This configuration is essential for [macros](/ref/macro) that need to reference the global `i18n` object.

You only need to set this value if you use custom object created using [`setupI18n`](/ref/core#setupi18n):

For example, if you have a custom module that exports the `i18n` object:

```jsx
import { i18n } from "./custom-i18n-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": ["./custom-i18n-config", "i18n"]
}
```

You may use a different named export:

```jsx
import { myI18n } from "./custom-i18n-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": ["./custom-i18n-config", "myI18n"]
}
```

In more advanced scenarios, you may need to change the module from which the [`Trans`](/ref/macro#trans) or [`useLingui`](/ref/macro#uselingui) macros are imported:

```jsx
import { Trans, useLingui } from "./custom-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": {
    "Trans": ["./custom-config", "Trans"],
    "useLingui": ["./custom-config", "useLingui"]
  }
}
```

## extractors

Default value: `[babel]`

Extractors it's the way to customize which extractor you want for your codebase.

```js
{
   "extractors": [
      myCustomExtractor,
   ]
}
```

See the [Custom Extractor](/guides/custom-extractor) guide for instructions on creating your own extractor.

## macro.corePackage

Default value: `["@lingui/macro", "@lingui/core/macro"]`

Allows customizing the Core Macro package name that the Lingui macro detects.

```js
// lingui.config
{
  macro: {
    corePackage: ["@lingui/myMacro"];
  }
}

// app.tsx
import { msg } from "@lingui/myMacro";

msg`Hello`; // <-- would be correctly picked up by macro
```

This setting mostly useful for external framework integrations.

## macro.jsxPackage

Default value: `["@lingui/macro", "@lingui/react/macro"]`

Allows customizing the JSX Macro package name that the Lingui macro detects.

```jsx
// lingui.config
{
  macro: {
    jsxPackage: ["@lingui/myMacro"];
  }
}

// app.tsx
import { Trans } from "@lingui/myMacro";

<Trans>Hello</Trans>; // <-- would be correctly picked up by macro
```

This setting mostly useful for external framework integrations.

## experimental.multiThread

Default value: `false`

Enable multi-threaded compilation. Currently only supported for the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command.

When enabled, the compilation process will use multiple worker threads to compile message catalogs in parallel, which can significantly improve performance for large projects with many messages.

```json
{
  "experimental": {
    "multiThread": true
  }
}
```

:::note
This is an experimental feature and may have limitations or change in future versions.
:::

Commit message:

feat: support multi thread extraction

website/docs/ref/conf.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: Learn how to configure Lingui for your project
---

# Configuration

The following reference covers all supported configuration options in Lingui. To learn more about configuring Lingui, read the [Installation and Setup](/installation) guide.

By default, Lingui looks for the configuration in the following locations:

- `lingui.config.js` or `lingui.config.ts` file exporting a configuration object (recommended).
- `.linguirc` file in JSON format.
- `lingui` section in `package.json`.

You can also define the environment variable `LINGUI_CONFIG` with the path to your config file.

In the case of TypeScript-based config you can use ESM format and _export default_.

## catalogs

Default value:

```js
[
  {
    path: "<rootDir>/locale/{locale}/messages",
    include: ["<rootDir>"],
    exclude: ["**/node_modules/**"],
  },
];
```

The `catalogs` configuration defines the location of message catalogs and specifies which files are included when the [`extract`](/ref/cli#extract) command scans for messages.

- `path`: the directory where the message catalogs are located. It should not end with a slash and must not include a file extension, which depends on the [`format`](#format) configuration. The `{locale}` token will be replaced by the catalog's locale.
- `include` and `exclude`: these patterns specify which files to include or exclude during the extraction process. They are passed to [minimatch](https://github.com/isaacs/minimatch) for pattern matching.
- [`<rootDir>`](#rootdir): represents the root directory of the project. It is replaced with the actual root directory when the configuration is loaded. By default, [`<rootDir>`](#rootdir) represents the configuration file's location.

The `path`, `include`, and `exclude` patterns are interpreted relative to the current process CWD (current working directory).

The `{name}` token in the `path` will be replaced with the catalog name. Be sure to include the `{name}` pattern in the source path as well, as it acts like a `*` glob pattern:

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "<rootDir>/components/{name}/locale/{locale}",
      "include": ["<rootDir>/components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

#### Examples

Let's assume we use `locales: ["en", "cs"]` and `format: "po"` in all examples.

#### All catalogs in one directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "locales/{locale}"
    }
  ]
}
```

```bash
locales/
├── en.po
└── cs.po
```

#### Catalogs in separate directories

```js
{
  catalogs: [
    {
      path: "locales/{locale}/messages",
    },
  ];
}
```

```bash {3,5}
locales
├── en/
│   └── messages.po
└── cs/
    └── messages.po
```

#### Separate catalogs per component, placed inside component directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "components/{name}/locale/{locale}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

```shell {4,5,10,11}
components/
├── RegistrationForm/
│   ├── locale/
│   │  ├── en.po
│   │  └── cs.po
│   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
│   └── RegistrationForm.js
└── LoginForm/
    ├── locale/
    │  ├── en.po
    │  └── cs.po
    ├── LoginForm.test.js
    └── LoginForm.js
```

#### Separate catalogs per component, placed inside shared directory

```json
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "locale/{locale}/{name}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ]
}
```

```shell {4,5,7,8}
.
├── locale/
│   ├── en/
│   │   ├── RegistrationForm.po
│   │   └── LoginForm.po
│   └── cs/
│       ├── RegistrationForm.po
│       └── LoginForm.po
└── components/
    ├── RegistrationForm/
    │   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
    │   └── RegistrationForm.js
    └── LoginForm/
        ├── LoginForm.test.js
        └── LoginForm.js
```

## locales

Default value: `[]`

The locale tags used in the project. The [`extract`](/ref/cli#extract) and [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) commands write a catalog for each locale specified. Each locale should be a valid [BCP-47 code](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html):

```json
{
  "locales": ["en", "cs"]
}
```

## fallbackLocales

Default value: `{}`

Translations from `fallbackLocales` are used if the translation for the given locale is missing. It uses [CLDR Parent Locales](https://github.com/unicode-cldr/cldr-core/blob/master/supplemental/parentLocales.json) by default, unless you override it with a `false` to use the default message or message ID instead:

```json
{
  "fallbackLocales": false
}
```

The `fallbackLocales` object allows to configure fallback locales for each locale instance:

```json
{
  "fallbackLocales": {
    "en-US": ["en-GB", "en"],
    "es-MX": "es"
  }
}
```

In this example, if any translation isn't found on `en-US`, then it will search on `en-GB`, after that if not found we'll search in `en`.

it's also possible to configure a `default` fallback locale for all locales:

```json {5}
{
  "fallbackLocales": {
    "en-US": ["en-GB", "en"],
    "es-MX": "es",
    "default": "en"
  }
}
```

## sourceLocale

Default value: `""`

`sourceLocale` specifies the default language of message IDs in your source files. The catalog for `sourceLocale` doesn't need actual translations since message IDs are used as-is by default. However, you can still override any message ID by providing a custom translation.

The main difference between `sourceLocale` and [`fallbackLocales`](#fallbacklocales) is their purpose: `sourceLocale` defines the language used for message IDs, while `fallbackLocales` provides alternative translations when specific messages are missing for a particular locale.

## pseudoLocale

Default value: `""`

Locale used for pseudolocalization. For example, when you set `pseudoLocale: "en"`, all messages in the `en` catalog will be pseudo-localized. The locale must be included in the `locales` config.

Read more about [Pseudolocalization](/guides/pseudolocalization).

## catalogsMergePath

Default value: `""`

Define the path where translated catalogs are merged into a single file per locale during the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) process.

#### Example

Let's assume we have [separate catalogs per component, placed inside shared directory](#separate-catalogs-per-component-placed-inside-shared-directory).

Using the `catalogsMergePath`, separate catalogs can be merged into a single file:

```diff
{
  "catalogs": [
    {
      "path": "/locale/{locale}/{name}",
      "include": ["components/{name}/"]
    }
  ],
+ "catalogsMergePath": "locales/{locale}"
}
```

```diff
.
  ├── locale/
  │   ├── en/
  │   │   ├── RegistrationForm.po
- │   │   ├── RegistrationForm.js
  │   │   ├── LoginForm.po
- │   │   └── LoginForm.js
  │   └── cs/
  │       ├── RegistrationForm.po
- │       ├── RegistrationForm.js
  │       ├── LoginForm.po
- │       └── LoginForm.js
+ ├── locales/
+ │   ├── en.js
+ │   └── cs.js
  └── components/
      ├── RegistrationForm/
      │   ├── RegistrationForm.test.js
      │   └── RegistrationForm.js
      └── LoginForm/
          ├── LoginForm.test.js
          └── LoginForm.js
```

## compileNamespace

Default value: `cjs`

Specify namespace for exporting compiled messages. See [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command.

#### cjs

Use CommonJS exports:

```js
/* eslint-disable */module.exports={messages: {"..."}}
```

#### es

Use ES6 named export:

```js
/* eslint-disable */export const messages = {"..."}
```

#### ts

Use ES6 named export + `.ts` file with an additional `{compiledFile}.d.ts` file:

```js
/* eslint-disable */export const messages = {"..."}
```

```js
import { Messages } from '@lingui/core';
declare const messages: Messages;
export { messages };
```

#### json

```json
{"messages": {"..."}}
```

#### (window\|global).(.\*)

Assign compiled messages to `window` or `global` object. Specify an identifier after `window` or `global` to which the catalog is assigned, e.g. `window.i18n`.

For example, setting [`compileNamespace`](#compilenamespace) to `window.i18n` creates file similar to this:

```js
/* eslint-disable */window.i18n={messages: {"..."}}
```

## extractorParserOptions

Default value: `{}`

Specify additional options used to parse source files when extracting messages.

```json
{
  "extractorParserOptions": {
    "tsExperimentalDecorators": false,
    "flow": false
  }
}
```

#### tsExperimentalDecorators

Default value: `false`

By default, standard decorators (Stage3) are applied to TS files. Enable this if you want to use TypeScript's experimental decorators.

#### flow

Default value: `false`

Lingui does not ship with [Flow](https://flow.org/) typing. However, you can use Lingui in projects written in Flow. Enable this option to tell the extractor that your sources use Flow syntax.

## compilerBabelOptions

Default value:

```json
{
  "minified": true,
  "jsescOption": {
    "minimal": true
  }
}
```

Specify extra babel options used to generate files when messages are being compiled. We use internally `@babel/generator` that accepts some configuration for generating code with/out ASCII characters. These are all the options available: [jsesc](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/jsesc).

```json
{
  "compilerBabelOptions": {
    "jsescOption": {
      "minimal": false
    }
  }
}
```

This example configuration will compile with escaped ASCII characters ([jsesc#minimal](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/jsesc#minimal)).

## format

Default value: `po`

Message catalog format. The `po` formatter is used by default. Other formatters are available as separate packages.

```js title="lingui.config.{js,ts}"
import { defineConfig } from "@lingui/cli";
import { formatter } from "@lingui/format-po";

export default defineConfig({
  // [...]
  format: formatter({ lineNumbers: false }),
});
```

Read more about available formatters in [Catalog Formats](/ref/catalog-formats) or create your own [Custom Formatter](/guides/custom-formatter).

## orderBy

Default value: `message`

Order of messages in catalog:

#### message

Sort by source message.

#### messageId

Sort by the message ID, `js-lingui-id` will be used if no custom id provided.

#### origin

Sort by message origin (e.g. `App.js:3`)

## rootDir

Default: The root of the directory containing your Lingui configuration file or the `package.json`.

This is the directory where the Lingui CLI scans for messages in your source files during the extraction process.

Note that using `<rootDir>` as a string token in any other path-based config settings will refer back to this value.

## runtimeConfigModule

Default value: `["@lingui/core", "i18n"]`

This setting specifies the module path for the exported `i18n` object. The first value in the array is the module path, and the second is the name of the import. This configuration is essential for [macros](/ref/macro) that need to reference the global `i18n` object.

You only need to set this value if you use custom object created using [`setupI18n`](/ref/core#setupi18n):

For example, if you have a custom module that exports the `i18n` object:

```jsx
import { i18n } from "./custom-i18n-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": ["./custom-i18n-config", "i18n"]
}
```

You may use a different named export:

```jsx
import { myI18n } from "./custom-i18n-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": ["./custom-i18n-config", "myI18n"]
}
```

In more advanced scenarios, you may need to change the module from which the [`Trans`](/ref/macro#trans) or [`useLingui`](/ref/macro#uselingui) macros are imported:

```jsx
import { Trans, useLingui } from "./custom-config";
```

```json
{
  "runtimeConfigModule": {
    "Trans": ["./custom-config", "Trans"],
    "useLingui": ["./custom-config", "useLingui"]
  }
}
```

## extractors

Default value: `[babel]`

Extractors it's the way to customize which extractor you want for your codebase.

```js
{
   "extractors": [
      myCustomExtractor,
   ]
}
```

See the [Custom Extractor](/guides/custom-extractor) guide for instructions on creating your own extractor.

## macro.corePackage

Default value: `["@lingui/macro", "@lingui/core/macro"]`

Allows customizing the Core Macro package name that the Lingui macro detects.

```js
// lingui.config
{
  macro: {
    corePackage: ["@lingui/myMacro"];
  }
}

// app.tsx
import { msg } from "@lingui/myMacro";

msg`Hello`; // <-- would be correctly picked up by macro
```

This setting mostly useful for external framework integrations.

## macro.jsxPackage

Default value: `["@lingui/macro", "@lingui/react/macro"]`

Allows customizing the JSX Macro package name that the Lingui macro detects.

```jsx
// lingui.config
{
  macro: {
    jsxPackage: ["@lingui/myMacro"];
  }
}

// app.tsx
import { Trans } from "@lingui/myMacro";

<Trans>Hello</Trans>; // <-- would be correctly picked up by macro
```

This setting mostly useful for external framework integrations.

## experimental.multiThread

Default value: `false`

Enable multi-threaded compilation and extraction.

When enabled, the compilation and extraction processes will use multiple worker threads to process files in parallel, which can significantly improve performance for large projects with many messages. But it's not supported for custom extractors as functions cannot be serialized and passed to worker threads.

```json
{
  "experimental": {
    "multiThread": true
  }
}
```

:::note
This is an experimental feature and may have limitations or change in future versions.
:::
