website/docs/ref/core.md, before:

---
title: Lingui Core API
description: The package provides the main i18n object, which manages message catalogs, active locale, and message translation and formatting
---

# Core API Reference

The `@lingui/core` package provides the main i18n object which manages message catalogs, active locale as well as translation and formatting of messages.

## Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @lingui/core
```

## Overview

The `@lingui/core` package provides a global instance of the `i18n` object, which you can import and use directly:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

/**
 * Load messages for the requested locale and activate it.
 * This function isn't part of the Lingui because there are
 * many ways how to load messages — from REST API, from file, from cache, etc.
 */
async function activate(locale: string) {
  const { messages } = await import(`${locale}/messages.js`);
  i18n.loadAndActivate({ locale, messages });
}

activate("cs");

// returns the Czech translation of "Hello World"
const translation = i18n._("Hello World");
```

:::info Advanced
If you prefer not to use the global `i18n` instance and want to set up your own, you can utilize the [`setupI18n`](#setupi18n) method. Additionally, you'll need to configure the [`runtimeConfigModule`](/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule) to ensure that macros work properly.
:::

## Class `i18n()` {#i18n}

### `i18n.loadAndActivate(options)` {#i18n.loadAndActivate}

The `options` parameter is an object with the following properties:

- `locale`: The initial active locale.
- `locales`: A list of alternative locales ([BCP-47](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html) language tags) used for number and date formatting.
- `messages`: The **compiled** message catalog.

It allows to set (overwrite) the catalog for a given locale and activate the locale:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

const { messages } = await import(`${locale}/messages.js`);
i18n.loadAndActivate({ locale, messages });
```

### `i18n.load(allMessages: AllMessages)` {#i18n.load(allMessages)}

### `i18n.load(locale: string, messages: Messages)` {#i18n.load}

Load messages for given locale or load multiple message catalogs at once.

When some messages for the provided locale are already loaded, calling `i18n.load` will merge the new messages with the existing ones using `Object.assign`.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

/**
 * This is just an example of what the catalog looks like internally.
 * Formatting of string messages only works in development. See note below.
 */
const messagesEn = {
  Hello: "Hello",
  "Good bye": "Good bye",
  "My name is {name}": "My name is {name}",
};

const messagesCs = {
  Hello: "Ahoj",
  "Good bye": "Nashledanou",
  "My name is {name}": "Jmenuji se {name}",
};

// highlight-start
i18n.load({
  en: messagesEn,
  cs: messagesCs,
});
// highlight-end

// This is the same as loading message catalogs separately per language:
// i18n.load('en', messagesEn)
// i18n.load('cs', messagesCs)
```

:::tip
Don't write catalogs manually. The code above is an example of message catalogs. In real applications, messages are loaded from external message catalogs generated by the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command or by using tools such as [Vite Plugin](/ref/vite-plugin), [Webpack Loader](/ref/loader), or [Metro Transformer](/ref/metro-transformer).

Formatting of messages as strings (e.g: `"My name is {name}"`) works in development only, when messages are parsed on the fly. In production, however, messages must be compiled using the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command.

Here's how the same example would look in a real application:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// File generated by `lingui compile`
import { messages as messagesEn } from "./locale/en/messages.js";

i18n.load("en", messagesEn);
```

:::

### `i18n.setMessagesCompiler(compiler)` {#i18n.setMessagesCompiler}

Registers a `MessageCompiler` to enable the use of uncompiled catalogs at runtime.

In production builds, the `MessageCompiler` is typically excluded to reduce bundle size.

By default, message catalogs should be precompiled during the build process. However, if you need to compile catalogs at runtime, you can use this method to set a message compiler.

Example usage:

```ts
import { compileMessage } from "@lingui/message-utils/compileMessage";

i18n.setMessagesCompiler(compileMessage);
```

### `i18n.activate(locale[, locales])` {#i18n.activate}

Activate the specified locale and any alternate locales. After calling this method, calling `i18n._` will return messages in the activated locale.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.activate("en");
i18n._("Hello"); // Return "Hello" in English

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n._("Hello"); // Return "Hello" in Czech
```

### `i18n._(messageId[, values[, options]])` {#i18n.\_}

The core method for translating and formatting messages.

- `messageId`: a unique message ID which identifies message in catalog.
- `values`: an object containing variables used in translated message.
- `options.message`: the default translation (optional). This is mostly used when application doesn't use message IDs in natural language (e.g.: `msg.id` or `Component.title`).
- `options.formats`: custom format definitions for dates and times (optional). An object where keys are format names and values are either `Intl.DateTimeFormatOptions` or `Intl.NumberFormatOptions`.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// Simple message
i18n._("Hello");

// Message with variables
i18n._("My name is {name}", { name: "Tom" });

// Message with custom messageId
i18n._("msg.id", { name: "Tom" }, { message: "My name is {name}" });

const date = new Date("2014-12-06");
const time = new Date("2014-12-06T17:40:00Z");

// Short date format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, short}", { someDate: date });

// Short time format
i18n._("It starts on {someTime, time, short}", { someTime: time });

// Date skeleton format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, ::GrMMMdd}", { someDate: date });

// Custom date format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, myStyle}", { someDate: date }, { formats: { myStyle: { day: "numeric" } } });
```

### `i18n._(messageDescriptor)`

`messageDescriptor` is an object with a message ID, default message and other parameters. It's useful when you need to use the declared message later in the code.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// Simple message
i18n._({ id: "Hello" });

// Simple message using custom ID
i18n._({ id: "msg.hello", message: "Hello" });

// Message with variable
i18n._({ id: "My name is {name}", values: { name: "Tom" } });

// Message with comment, custom ID and variable
i18n._({
  id: "msg.name",
  message: "My name is {name}",
  comment: "Message showing the passed in name",
  values: { name: "Tom" },
});
```

Read more about [Message Descriptor](/ref/macro#core-macros).

### `i18n.t(...)` {#i18n.t}

Alias for [`i18n._`](#i18n._).

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.t({ id: "Hello" });
```

### `i18n.date(value: string | Date | number[, format: Intl.DateTimeFormatOptions])` {#i18n.date}

Format a date using the conventional format for the active language.

- `value`: the date to be formatted, as accepted by [`Intl.DateTimeFormat.prototype.format`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/DateTimeFormat/format#parameters).
  When `value` is a string, a `Date` object is created using `new Date(date)`.
- `format`: an optional object that is passed to the `options` argument of the [`Intl.DateTimeFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/DateTimeFormat/DateTimeFormat) constructor. This allows for customization of the date formatting.

:::caution Deprecated
`i18n.date` will be removed. Prefer using `Intl.DateTimeFormat` directly:

```ts
new Intl.DateTimeFormat(i18n.locales ?? i18n.locale, format).format(d)
```
:::

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

const d = new Date("2021-07-23T16:23:00");

i18n.activate("en");
i18n.date(d);
// Returns "7/23/2021"

i18n.date(d, { timeStyle: "medium" });
// Returns "4:23:00 PM"

i18n.date(d, { dateStyle: "medium", timeStyle: "medium" });
// Returns "Jul 23, 2021, 4:23:00 PM"

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n.date(d);
// Returns "23. 7. 2021"
```

### `i18n.number(value: number | bigint | Intl.StringNumericLiteral[, format: Intl.NumberFormatOptions])` {#i18n.number}

Format a number using the conventional format for the active language.

- `value`: the number to be formatted, as accepted by [`Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.format`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/format#parameters).
- `format`: an optional object that is passed to the `options` argument of the [`Intl.NumberFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/NumberFormat) constructor. This allows for customization of the date formatting.

:::caution Deprecated
`i18n.number` will be removed. Prefer using `Intl.NumberFormat` directly:

```ts
new Intl.NumberFormat(i18n.locales ?? i18n.locale, format).format(value)
```
:::

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.activate("en");
i18n.number(12345.678);
// Returns "12,345.678"

i18n.number(12345.678, { style: "currency", currency: "USD" });
// Returns "$12,345.68"

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n.number(12345.678);
// Returns "12 345,678"

i18n.number(12345.678, { style: "currency", currency: "CZK" });
// Returns "12 345,68 Kč"
```

## `setupI18n([options])` {#setupi18n}

Initialize and return a new `I18n` instance. Typically, you should call this function only once and then use the returned `i18n` object throughout your entire codebase.

:::info
You typically don't need to set up your own `i18n` instance. In most cases, you can use the global `i18n` object exported from `@lingui/core` directly.

However, if you need to do this, make sure to also configure the [`runtimeConfigModule`](/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule) to ensure macros work properly.
:::

```ts
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n();
```

The factory function accepts an optional `options` parameter, which can be used to configure the initial state of the `i18n` instance.

### `options.locale`

Initial active locale.

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({ locale: "en" });

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.activate("en")
```

### `options.locales`

List of alternative locales ([BCP-47](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html) language tags) which are used for number and date formatting (some countries use more than one number/date format). If not set, the active locale is used instead.

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({
  locale: "ar",
  locales: ["en-UK", "ar-AS"],
});

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.activate("ar", ["en-UK", "ar-AS"])
```

### `options.messages`

Initial [`Messages`](#messages).

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const messages = {
  en: require("./locale/en/messages").messages, // your path to compiled messages here
  cs: require("./locale/cs/messages").messages, // your path to compiled messages here
};
const i18n = setupI18n({ messages });

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.load(messages)
```

### `options.missing`

A custom message to be returned when a translation is missing. This feature is useful for debugging:

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({ missing: "🚨" });
i18n._("missing translation") === "🚨"; // Returns the custom missing message
```

Alternatively, `missing` can be a function that receives the active locale and message ID as arguments:

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

function missing(locale, id) {
  alert(`Translation in ${locale} for ${id} is missing!`);
  return id;
}

const i18n = setupI18n({ missing });
i18n._("missing translation"); // Triggers an alert
```

## AllMessages

The `AllMessages` parameter in the [`I18n.load`](#i18n.load) method is of the following type:

```ts
type AllMessages = { [locale: string]: CompiledMessage };

// Example
const messages: AllMessages = {
  en: {
    messages: {
      Hello: "Hello",
      "Good bye": "Good bye",
    },
  },
  cs: {
    messages: {
      Hello: "Ahoj",
      "Good bye": "Nashledanou",
    },
  },
};
```

## Messages

Type of messages in [`AllMessages`](#allmessages). It's a mapping of a message ID to a translation in given language. This may be a function if messages are compiled.

```ts
type Messages = { [messageId: string]: string | Function };

// Example
const messagesEn: Messages = {
  Hello: "Hello",
  "Good bye": "Good bye",
};
```

## Events

### `change`

The `change` event is triggered **after** changing the locale or loading a new message catalog. No arguments are passed to this event.

### `missing`

The `missing` event is triggered when a translation is requested using [`i18n._`](/ref/core#i18n._) that does not exist in the messages of the active locale.The event provides information about the locale and the missing message ID.

```ts
i18n.on("missing", (event) => {
  alert(`Translation in ${event.locale} for ${event.id} is missing!`);
});
```

Commit message:

chore: add blog post on deprecating Intl wrappers and update documentation

website/docs/ref/core.md, after:

---
title: Lingui Core API
description: The package provides the main i18n object, which manages message catalogs, active locale, and message translation and formatting
---

# Core API Reference

The `@lingui/core` package provides the main i18n object which manages message catalogs, active locale as well as translation and formatting of messages.

## Installation

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save @lingui/core
```

## Overview

The `@lingui/core` package provides a global instance of the `i18n` object, which you can import and use directly:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

/**
 * Load messages for the requested locale and activate it.
 * This function isn't part of the Lingui because there are
 * many ways how to load messages — from REST API, from file, from cache, etc.
 */
async function activate(locale: string) {
  const { messages } = await import(`${locale}/messages.js`);
  i18n.loadAndActivate({ locale, messages });
}

activate("cs");

// returns the Czech translation of "Hello World"
const translation = i18n._("Hello World");
```

:::info Advanced
If you prefer not to use the global `i18n` instance and want to set up your own, you can utilize the [`setupI18n`](#setupi18n) method. Additionally, you'll need to configure the [`runtimeConfigModule`](/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule) to ensure that macros work properly.
:::

## Class `i18n()` {#i18n}

### `i18n.loadAndActivate(options)` {#i18n.loadAndActivate}

The `options` parameter is an object with the following properties:

- `locale`: The initial active locale.
- `locales`: A list of alternative locales ([BCP-47](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html) language tags) used for number and date formatting.
- `messages`: The **compiled** message catalog.

It allows to set (overwrite) the catalog for a given locale and activate the locale:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

const { messages } = await import(`${locale}/messages.js`);
i18n.loadAndActivate({ locale, messages });
```

### `i18n.load(allMessages: AllMessages)` {#i18n.load(allMessages)}

### `i18n.load(locale: string, messages: Messages)` {#i18n.load}

Load messages for given locale or load multiple message catalogs at once.

When some messages for the provided locale are already loaded, calling `i18n.load` will merge the new messages with the existing ones using `Object.assign`.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

/**
 * This is just an example of what the catalog looks like internally.
 * Formatting of string messages only works in development. See note below.
 */
const messagesEn = {
  Hello: "Hello",
  "Good bye": "Good bye",
  "My name is {name}": "My name is {name}",
};

const messagesCs = {
  Hello: "Ahoj",
  "Good bye": "Nashledanou",
  "My name is {name}": "Jmenuji se {name}",
};

// highlight-start
i18n.load({
  en: messagesEn,
  cs: messagesCs,
});
// highlight-end

// This is the same as loading message catalogs separately per language:
// i18n.load('en', messagesEn)
// i18n.load('cs', messagesCs)
```

:::tip
Don't write catalogs manually. The code above is an example of message catalogs. In real applications, messages are loaded from external message catalogs generated by the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command or by using tools such as [Vite Plugin](/ref/vite-plugin), [Webpack Loader](/ref/loader), or [Metro Transformer](/ref/metro-transformer).

Formatting of messages as strings (e.g: `"My name is {name}"`) works in development only, when messages are parsed on the fly. In production, however, messages must be compiled using the [`compile`](/ref/cli#compile) command.

Here's how the same example would look in a real application:

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// File generated by `lingui compile`
import { messages as messagesEn } from "./locale/en/messages.js";

i18n.load("en", messagesEn);
```

:::

### `i18n.setMessagesCompiler(compiler)` {#i18n.setMessagesCompiler}

Registers a `MessageCompiler` to enable the use of uncompiled catalogs at runtime.

In production builds, the `MessageCompiler` is typically excluded to reduce bundle size.

By default, message catalogs should be precompiled during the build process. However, if you need to compile catalogs at runtime, you can use this method to set a message compiler.

Example usage:

```ts
import { compileMessage } from "@lingui/message-utils/compileMessage";

i18n.setMessagesCompiler(compileMessage);
```

### `i18n.activate(locale[, locales])` {#i18n.activate}

Activate the specified locale and any alternate locales. After calling this method, calling `i18n._` will return messages in the activated locale.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.activate("en");
i18n._("Hello"); // Return "Hello" in English

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n._("Hello"); // Return "Hello" in Czech
```

### `i18n._(messageId[, values[, options]])` {#i18n.\_}

The core method for translating and formatting messages.

- `messageId`: a unique message ID which identifies message in catalog.
- `values`: an object containing variables used in translated message.
- `options.message`: the default translation (optional). This is mostly used when application doesn't use message IDs in natural language (e.g.: `msg.id` or `Component.title`).
- `options.formats`: custom format definitions for dates and times (optional). An object where keys are format names and values are either `Intl.DateTimeFormatOptions` or `Intl.NumberFormatOptions`.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// Simple message
i18n._("Hello");

// Message with variables
i18n._("My name is {name}", { name: "Tom" });

// Message with custom messageId
i18n._("msg.id", { name: "Tom" }, { message: "My name is {name}" });

const date = new Date("2014-12-06");
const time = new Date("2014-12-06T17:40:00Z");

// Short date format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, short}", { someDate: date });

// Short time format
i18n._("It starts on {someTime, time, short}", { someTime: time });

// Date skeleton format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, ::GrMMMdd}", { someDate: date });

// Custom date format
i18n._("It starts on {someDate, date, myStyle}", { someDate: date }, { formats: { myStyle: { day: "numeric" } } });
```

### `i18n._(messageDescriptor)`

`messageDescriptor` is an object with a message ID, default message and other parameters. It's useful when you need to use the declared message later in the code.

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

// Simple message
i18n._({ id: "Hello" });

// Simple message using custom ID
i18n._({ id: "msg.hello", message: "Hello" });

// Message with variable
i18n._({ id: "My name is {name}", values: { name: "Tom" } });

// Message with comment, custom ID and variable
i18n._({
  id: "msg.name",
  message: "My name is {name}",
  comment: "Message showing the passed in name",
  values: { name: "Tom" },
});
```

Read more about [Message Descriptor](/ref/macro#core-macros).

### `i18n.t(...)` {#i18n.t}

Alias for [`i18n._`](#i18n._).

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.t({ id: "Hello" });
```

### `i18n.date(value: string | Date | number[, format: Intl.DateTimeFormatOptions])` {#i18n.date}

Format a date using the conventional format for the active language.

- `value`: the date to be formatted, as accepted by [`Intl.DateTimeFormat.prototype.format`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/DateTimeFormat/format#parameters).
  When `value` is a string, a `Date` object is created using `new Date(date)`.
- `format`: an optional object that is passed to the `options` argument of the [`Intl.DateTimeFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/DateTimeFormat/DateTimeFormat) constructor. This allows for customization of the date formatting.

:::caution Deprecated
`i18n.date` will be removed. Prefer using `Intl.DateTimeFormat` directly:

```ts
new Intl.DateTimeFormat(i18n.locales ?? i18n.locale, format).format(d)
```

For more context and migration tips, see the blog post: [Intl wrapper deprecation](/blog/2025/12/17/deprecating-intl-wrappers).
:::

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

const d = new Date("2021-07-23T16:23:00");

i18n.activate("en");
i18n.date(d);
// Returns "7/23/2021"

i18n.date(d, { timeStyle: "medium" });
// Returns "4:23:00 PM"

i18n.date(d, { dateStyle: "medium", timeStyle: "medium" });
// Returns "Jul 23, 2021, 4:23:00 PM"

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n.date(d);
// Returns "23. 7. 2021"
```

### `i18n.number(value: number | bigint | Intl.StringNumericLiteral[, format: Intl.NumberFormatOptions])` {#i18n.number}

Format a number using the conventional format for the active language.

- `value`: the number to be formatted, as accepted by [`Intl.NumberFormat.prototype.format`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/format#parameters).
- `format`: an optional object that is passed to the `options` argument of the [`Intl.NumberFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/NumberFormat/NumberFormat) constructor. This allows for customization of the date formatting.

:::caution Deprecated
`i18n.number` will be removed. Prefer using `Intl.NumberFormat` directly:

```ts
new Intl.NumberFormat(i18n.locales ?? i18n.locale, format).format(value)
```

For more context and migration tips, see the blog post: [Intl wrapper deprecation](/blog/2025/12/17/deprecating-intl-wrappers).
:::

```ts
import { i18n } from "@lingui/core";

i18n.activate("en");
i18n.number(12345.678);
// Returns "12,345.678"

i18n.number(12345.678, { style: "currency", currency: "USD" });
// Returns "$12,345.68"

i18n.activate("cs");
i18n.number(12345.678);
// Returns "12 345,678"

i18n.number(12345.678, { style: "currency", currency: "CZK" });
// Returns "12 345,68 Kč"
```

## `setupI18n([options])` {#setupi18n}

Initialize and return a new `I18n` instance. Typically, you should call this function only once and then use the returned `i18n` object throughout your entire codebase.

:::info
You typically don't need to set up your own `i18n` instance. In most cases, you can use the global `i18n` object exported from `@lingui/core` directly.

However, if you need to do this, make sure to also configure the [`runtimeConfigModule`](/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule) to ensure macros work properly.
:::

```ts
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n();
```

The factory function accepts an optional `options` parameter, which can be used to configure the initial state of the `i18n` instance.

### `options.locale`

Initial active locale.

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({ locale: "en" });

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.activate("en")
```

### `options.locales`

List of alternative locales ([BCP-47](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/supplemental/language_plural_rules.html) language tags) which are used for number and date formatting (some countries use more than one number/date format). If not set, the active locale is used instead.

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({
  locale: "ar",
  locales: ["en-UK", "ar-AS"],
});

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.activate("ar", ["en-UK", "ar-AS"])
```

### `options.messages`

Initial [`Messages`](#messages).

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const messages = {
  en: require("./locale/en/messages").messages, // your path to compiled messages here
  cs: require("./locale/cs/messages").messages, // your path to compiled messages here
};
const i18n = setupI18n({ messages });

// This is a shortcut for:
// const i18n = setupI18n()
// i18n.load(messages)
```

### `options.missing`

A custom message to be returned when a translation is missing. This feature is useful for debugging:

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

const i18n = setupI18n({ missing: "🚨" });
i18n._("missing translation") === "🚨"; // Returns the custom missing message
```

Alternatively, `missing` can be a function that receives the active locale and message ID as arguments:

```tsx
import { setupI18n } from "@lingui/core";

function missing(locale, id) {
  alert(`Translation in ${locale} for ${id} is missing!`);
  return id;
}

const i18n = setupI18n({ missing });
i18n._("missing translation"); // Triggers an alert
```

## AllMessages

The `AllMessages` parameter in the [`I18n.load`](#i18n.load) method is of the following type:

```ts
type AllMessages = { [locale: string]: CompiledMessage };

// Example
const messages: AllMessages = {
  en: {
    messages: {
      Hello: "Hello",
      "Good bye": "Good bye",
    },
  },
  cs: {
    messages: {
      Hello: "Ahoj",
      "Good bye": "Nashledanou",
    },
  },
};
```

## Messages

Type of messages in [`AllMessages`](#allmessages). It's a mapping of a message ID to a translation in given language. This may be a function if messages are compiled.

```ts
type Messages = { [messageId: string]: string | Function };

// Example
const messagesEn: Messages = {
  Hello: "Hello",
  "Good bye": "Good bye",
};
```

## Events

### `change`

The `change` event is triggered **after** changing the locale or loading a new message catalog. No arguments are passed to this event.

### `missing`

The `missing` event is triggered when a translation is requested using [`i18n._`](/ref/core#i18n._) that does not exist in the messages of the active locale.The event provides information about the locale and the missing message ID.

```ts
i18n.on("missing", (event) => {
  alert(`Translation in ${event.locale} for ${event.id} is missing!`);
});
```
