website/docs/ref/swc-plugin.md, before:

# SWC Plugin

[SWC](https://swc.rs/) is an extensible Rust-based platform for the next generation of fast developer tools.

If you're using SWC in your project, you can opt for the `@lingui/swc-plugin`. This plugin, designed for SWC, is a Rust version of [LinguiJS Macro](/docs/ref/macro.md).

## Installation

Install `@lingui/swc-plugin` as a development dependency:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev @lingui/swc-plugin
```

## Usage

Add the following configuration to your [`.swcrc`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/swcrc) file:

```json title=".swcrc"
{
  "$schema": "https://json.schemastore.org/swcrc",
  "jsc": {
    "experimental": {
      "plugins": [
        [
          "@lingui/swc-plugin",
          {
            // Optional
            // Unlike the JS version this option must be passed as object only.
            // Docs https://lingui.dev/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule
            // "runtimeModules": {
            //   "i18n": ["@lingui/core", "i18n"],
            //   "trans": ["@lingui/react", "Trans"]
            // }
          },
        ],
      ],
    },
  },
}
```

If you use NextJS, add the following to your `next.config.js`:

```javascript title="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  experimental: {
    swcPlugins: [
      ['@lingui/swc-plugin', {
       // the same options as in .swcrc
      }],
    ],
  },
};

module.exports = nextConfig;
```

## Further reading

- [NextJS 13 Example](https://github.com/lingui/swc-plugin/tree/main/examples/nextjs-13)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/lingui/swc-plugin)
- [NPM Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lingui/swc-plugin)

Commit message:

docs(swc-plugin): add compatibility note

website/docs/ref/swc-plugin.md, after:

# SWC Plugin

[SWC](https://swc.rs/) is an extensible Rust-based platform for the next generation of fast developer tools.

If you're using SWC in your project, you can opt for the `@lingui/swc-plugin`. This plugin, designed for SWC, is a Rust version of [LinguiJS Macro](/docs/ref/macro.md).

## SWC Compatibility

SWC Plugin support is still experimental. Semver backwards compatibility between different `@swc/core` versions is not guaranteed.

Therefore, you need to select an appropriate version of the `@lingui/swc-plugin` to match compatible `@swc/core` version.

For more information on compatibility, please refer to the [Compatibility section](https://github.com/lingui/swc-plugin#compatibility).

## Installation

Install `@lingui/swc-plugin` as a development dependency:

```bash npm2yarn
npm install --save-dev @lingui/swc-plugin
```

## Usage

Add the following configuration to your [`.swcrc`](https://swc.rs/docs/configuration/swcrc) file:

```json title=".swcrc"
{
  "$schema": "https://json.schemastore.org/swcrc",
  "jsc": {
    "experimental": {
      "plugins": [
        [
          "@lingui/swc-plugin",
          {
            // Optional
            // Unlike the JS version this option must be passed as object only.
            // Docs https://lingui.dev/ref/conf#runtimeconfigmodule
            // "runtimeModules": {
            //   "i18n": ["@lingui/core", "i18n"],
            //   "trans": ["@lingui/react", "Trans"]
            // }
          },
        ],
      ],
    },
  },
}
```

If you use NextJS, add the following to your `next.config.js`:

```javascript title="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
  experimental: {
    swcPlugins: [
      ['@lingui/swc-plugin', {
       // the same options as in .swcrc
      }],
    ],
  },
};

module.exports = nextConfig;
```

## Examples

- [React with Vite and SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/vite-project-react-swc)
- [Next.js with SWC](https://github.com/lingui/js-lingui/tree/main/examples/nextjs-swc)

## Links

- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/lingui/swc-plugin)
- [NPM Package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lingui/swc-plugin)
